
#Why I'm Building Flowlist

Sometimes, I feel overwhelmed by all the stuff I have to do, and even more by all the stuff I'm passionate about. So, most of my life, I've been on a quest to sort myself out, get more shit done and turn more ideas into real things.

What played a central role in that quest where the task managers I used to organize my TODOs **and thoughts**. I tried them all, some for a long time: Todoist, Wunderlist, Omnifocus, Flow, Anydo, Things, Trello and even Apple's Reminders app.

You guessed it - I found them all frustrating. One particular aspect they share doesn't jive at all with the way I think: They force your notes into fixed categories like *Project*, *Task*, *Subtask* and *Description*. 

However reality isn't fragmented by such arbitrary categories, much less can you know the category or abstraction level of a thought the moment it pops into your head. The structure of ideas, tasks or "projects" rather emerges from the process of thinking about- or working on them.

Because they are so rigid, conventional task managers are really bad at capturing thoughts, brainstorming, developing ideas through "live thinking" or iterating over tasks and projects over time.

I need to evolve the structure of captured items to keep them in line with reality. I need a tool that supports an agile (i.e. realistic) way of thinking, working and living. That means, it must allow to freely mould the item hierarchy: Group items together, add sub items "into" an item, move items to a whole different level, and so forth.

So a year ago, I prototyped a novel kind of task manager and named it "Flowlist". And I've been happily using it every day since. This year, I decided to turn Flowlist into much more and make it available to you. More is to come at [flowlistapp.com](http://flowlistapp.com).

#The Big Idea

Flow, Simplicity, Simple (Universal) Domain Model leads to great Applicability and Power, etc...

#How to Use Flowlist

* navigation
* prioritize items
* add items on top and in between
* select multiple (with shift or cmd+a or mouse)
* delete items, how this is like writing a text (together with enter)
* undo last deletion
* rename items
* check items off
* add sub items, how they mostly replace description texts
* group items
* copy, cut and paste items
* insert rich text as items
* full screen, mono tasking

#Flowlist Light

Want to try it yourself? Go to flowlistapp.com and download Flowlist Light for free.

Flowlist Light has just 1 limitation: It cannot hold more than 100 items at the same time. Other than that, it has all features, it saves all your items, you can use it forever, and it is totally free, you don't even have to give away your email. Go to flowlistapp.com and start organizing your thoughts and your life today!

#Put on Shades, The Future is Bright

This isn't even the beginning. I have many great things planned for Flowlist. 

* A system wide keyboard short cut will allow you to quickly capture thoughts, even while you're using other apps. Neither will you forget anything nor will you be distracted. Whenever you have an idea, you capture it and just move on with whatever you're doing.

* Each item will have a long form description text. This seemingly minor addition will turn Flowlist into a creative writing tool. Organizing thoughts will, at the same time, structure and grow a potential text. You'll be able to export any item as plain text, LaTeX, markdown or HTML, with autogenerated headers, subheaders and so forth.

* Flowlist will have independent filters that let you customize what items you see. There'll be a custom tag hierarchy, colors, a live keyword search, due dates and more task states like "in progress" or "trashed". For example you'll be able to setup a filter that shows all work-related appointments and tasks of today.

#Pricing

I really don't like paid subscriptions. So I'll never require this for Flowlist. You pay once, then you can use the app forever.

Flowlist costs much less than conventional Task Managers and it always will besause, honestly, the competition's pricing is ridiculous. One reason why they are so expensive is that the concept (domain model) they started with is not as thought trough, elegant and universal as that of Flowlist. So the same amount of invested resources adds much less capabilities to their apps.

Now, as I'll make Flowlist more and more powerful, I'll have to adjust the price a bit. But I also reward your trust: When you have the app, you'll get all new features as free updates. For early birds, Flowlist is a steal.